src,doc: Experimental support for SEA (#42334)
nodejs/node: doc/contributing/maintaining-single-executable-application-support.md

# Maintaining Single Executable Applications support

Support for [single executable applications](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/master/doc/contributing/technical-priorities.md#single-executable-applications)

> is on of the key technical priorities identified for the success of Node.js.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is one of the key technical priorities identified for the success of Node.js.
```

## High level strategy

From the [next-10 discussions](https://github.com/nodejs/next-10/blob/main/meetings/summit-nov-2021.md#single-executable-applications)

> there are 2 approaches the projects believes are important to support:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
there are 2 approaches the project believes are important to support:
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
there are two approaches the project believes are important to support:
```

Refs: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/numbers#numerals-vs-words

> * Compile with node into executable (boxnode approach)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Compile with node into executable (boxednode approach)
```

> * Bundled onto exising Node.js exe (pkg approach)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Bundle into existing Node.js executable (pkg approach)
```

> * Compile with node into executable (boxnode approach)
> * Bundled onto exising Node.js exe (pkg approach)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Compile with Node.js into executable (`boxnode` approach).
* Bundle into existing Node.js executable (`pkg` approach).
```

### Compile with node into executable

> No specific code within the Node.js project is needed to support the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
No additional code within the Node.js project is needed to support the
```

option of compiling a bundled application along with Node.js into a single
executable application.

> ### Bundled onto Existing Node.js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Bundle into existing Node.js executable
```

The project does not plan to provide the complete solution but instead the key

> elements which are required in the Node.js executable in order to enabling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
elements which are required in the Node.js executable in order to enable
```

> bundling with the shipping Node.js binaries. This includes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bundling with the pre-built Node.js binaries. This includes:
```

* Looking for a segment within the executable that holds bundled code.

> * Running the bundled code when such a segement is found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Running the bundled code when such a segment is found.
```

It is left up to external tools/solutions to:

> * Bundled code into a single script that can be executed with -e on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Bundle code into a single script that can be executed with `-e` on
```

  the command line.

> * Generating a command line with appropriate options, including -e to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Generate a command line with appropriate options, including `-e` to
```

>   run the bundle script.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  run the bundled script.
```

> * adding a segment to the existing Node.js executable which contains

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Add a segment to an existing Node.js executable which contains
```

  the command line and appropriate headers.

> * re-generating or removing signatures on the resulting executable

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Re-generate or removing signatures on the resulting executable
```

> * providing a virtual file system, and hooking it in if needed to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Provide a virtual file system, and hooking it in if needed to
```

  support native modules or reading file contents.

## Maintaining

### Compile with node into executable

> There are not special consideration needed.

Author: @addaleax is this true or is there something we should add here to help avoid breaking support for single executable applications that use the boxnode approach?

Reviewer 4: Maintaining the boxednode approach requires maintaining a stable embedder API.

> There are not special consideration needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are no special considerations needed.
```

> There are no special considerations needed.

Author: The approach of compiling with node into an executable requires that we maintain a
stable [em-bedder API](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest/docs/api/embedding.html).

> ### Bundled onto Existing Node.js

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Bundle into existing Node.js executable
```

The following header must be included in a segment in order to have it run
as a single executable application:

JSCODEVVVVVVVVFFFFFFFFF

where:

> * VVVVVVVV string representing the version to be used to interpret the section,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `VVVVVVVV` represents the version to be used to interpret the section,
```

  for example `00000001`.

> * FFFFFFFF string representing the flags to be used in the process of starting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `FFFFFFFF` represents the flags to be used in the process of starting
```

  the bundled application. Currently this must be `00000000` to indicate that
  no flags are set.

The characters in both `VVVVVVVV` and `FFFFFFFF` are restricted to being

> between the characters "0" and "F" such that they can each be converted to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
hexadecimal characters (`0` through `9` and `A` through `F`) that form
```

> a 32 bit integer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a 32-bit, big endian integer.
```

I'm assuming this based on the prior example for this field.

The string following the header is treated as a set of command line options
that are used as a prefix to any additional command line options passed when

> the executable was started. For example, for a simple single hello world

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the executable is started. For example, for a simple single hello world
```

> for version `00000001`could be:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for version `00000001` could be:
```

```text
JSCODE0000000100000000-e \"console.log('Hello from single binary');\"
```

> Support for bundling onto existing Node.js binaries is maintained

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Support for bundling into existing Node.js binaries is maintained
```

in `src/node_single_binary.*`.

> Currently only POSIX compliant platform are suppported. The goal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently only POSIX-compliant platforms are supported. The goal
```

> is to expand this to include Windows and MacOS as well.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is to expand this to include Windows and macOS as well.
```

> If a breaking change is required to the content after the header, the version

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a breaking change to the content after the header is required, the version
```

`VVVVVVVV` should be incremented. Support for a new format

> may be introduced as a SemVer minor provided that older versions
> are still supported. Removing support for a version is SemVer major.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
may be introduced as a semver-minor provided that older versions
are still supported. Removing support for a version is semver-major.
```

> The `FFFFFFFF` are a set of flags that are used to control the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `FFFFFFFF` is a set of flags that is used to control the
```

process of starting the application. For example they might indicate
that some set of arguments should be suppressed on the command line.
Currently no flags are in use.

For test purposes [LIEF](<https://github.com/lief-project/LIEF>) can
be used to add a section in the required format. The following is a

> simple example for doing so on Linux. It can be improved as it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
simple example for using LIEF on Linux. It can be improved as it
```

  support native modules or reading file contents.

## Maintaining

### Compile with node into executable

The approach of compiling with node into an executable requires that we
maintain a stable [em-bedder API](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest/docs/api/embedding.html).

### Bundle into existing Node.js executable

The following header must be included in a segment in order to have it run
as a single executable application:

JSCODEVVVVVVVVFFFFFFFFF

where:

* `VVVVVVVV` represents the version to be used to interpret the section,
  for example `00000001`.
* `FFFFFFFF` represents the flags to be used in the process of starting
  the bundled application. Currently this must be `00000000` to indicate that
  no flags are set.

The characters in both `VVVVVVVV` and `FFFFFFFF` are restricted to being
hexadecimal characters (`0` through `9` and `A` through `F`) that form
a 32-bit, big endian integer.

The string following the header is treated as a set of command line options
that are used as a prefix to any additional command line options passed when
the executable is started. For example, for a simple single hello world
for version `00000001` could be:

```text

> JSCODE0000000100000000-e \"console.log('Hello from single binary');\"

Reviewer 5: maybe something with `node` or `nodejs` in it might be better?

Author: pushed commit to update to include NODEJS in the magic header
